[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
In many traditions
the world, over
intuitive abilities
are said to be passed from
generation to generation.
Today's guest,
Mariana Cooper, is
a third-generation intuitive.
This drew her to the work of
Doreen Virtue as her mentor.
As many intuitives,
Mariana also channels.
Today will discuss developing
our own intuition and the signs
that light the way.
Welcome to our show.
>>MARIANA COOPER: Thank
you for having me.
I'm really excited
to be here today.
>>REGINA: I want to find
out first about your family
if you can chat about that a
little bit, third generation.
It was through your
mother's lineage?
>>COOPER: Yes, yes, yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's talk about
grandma and your mother
and how this used to
show up in their lives
and even in your life as a
little girl and all of that.
>>COOPER: It's interesting
because my grandma--
I'll start with my grandmother
because she kind of
paved the way for us.
Back in the 1800s-- well,
I guess early 1900s,
she migrated here
from the Caribbean.
And she was one of
those people that
had just wanted to cover
all bases because she
was very hardworking.
She felt that there
was definitely
something to energy and
also to physicality.
So she always applied
energetic things
over top of her physical world.
I remember very early on
her taking me to health food
stores in the 1970s.
I mean, it was really something.
She was into organics.
>>REGINA: And where was this?
Where were you raised?
>>COOPER: She was in New York.
>>REGINA: In New York.
>>COOPER: In New York, yep.
And she was very much
about making sure
that you had the
energy physically
and you were taking
care of your body
but also that you
were always thinking
about your spirituality.
So she covered a lot of things.
She wore a Star of David.
She also wore a
Miraculous Medal.
She would watch
Robert Schuller on TV.
I remember her handing me a
packet of the little booklets
that were all about spirituality
and about handling hard times.
And she said to
me-- and this was
when I was in my early
teens-- she said to me someday
you'll need these.
Someday life will get hard.
And you'll need to
lean on something.
And it's going to be
more than your mind,
more than your
physical, mental mind,
you'll need to step into
something greater than
yourself.
Now, my mother had a little bit
different experiences with her.
Because when my mom
went off to college,
my grandmother had packed her
suitcase in a very special way.
She had packed certain things
on one side of the suitcase
and other things on other.
And she pulled out in
her brand new dorm room
with all her new
friends, who knew nothing
about this, a knot of
garlic for protection.
[LAUGHTER]
She says I had all these herbs.
>>REGINA: Thank God it
wasn't chicken entrails.
>>COOPER: Yeah, exactly.
We recently had to
redo my mother's house.
And she's still living
in the same house
that my grandmother
had helped her
to purchase, our family house.
And they had to rip the
ceiling to redo the basement.
And all these amulets
fell out of the ceiling--
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
>>COOPER: --that my grandmother
had put to protect the house.
Well, my family's had
the house for 60 years.
So it's actually it worked.
But essentially, my
grandmother really
leaned into her intuition
because back in the days
when she was working-- and
she worked for the subway
in New York-- and she would
say if she got five cents,
she'd put it in the bank.
She was in the time
of the Depression.
And they had to come
up with some other way
to feel hopeful,
to get guidance,
to follow her instincts
and her intuition
because she wasn't
getting-- she wasn't
born into a lot of money.
She was coming in
at a time she had
to raise two little
children by herself
and really lean into something
greater than herself.
So then that takes us to my mom.
>>REGINA: And did she apply her
intuition in her daily life?
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Should always get people--
>>REGINA: So did
people and friends
know that if they
needed some clarity,
they'd go to your grandma?
>>COOPER: Well, she
was the wise one.
So was the wise one.
She was the wisdom keeper.
She was the one who would always
tell you, now, is that what
you think or is that you feel?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COOPER: So she was--
at a very early age,
I was getting that distinction.
>>REGINA: What nice guidance.
>>COOPER: Yes, Really,
really powerful guidance.
And she was very
much into fashion.
And she actually
was a seamstress.
But she followed a very
non-linear path in the way
that she would operate.
So if something felt
right, she would
go in that direction as opposed
to the logical next step
from the mental mind.
And so my mother
was similar to that.
But she was around
during the time
when Shirley MacLaine came
out with Out on a Limb.
And I distinctly remember
her getting into the Seth
work and the Edward Cayce work.
Because at that
point now we had some
of the bigger classic
spiritual leaders
coming to the forefront.
And they were starting to get
into the mainstream, at least
with publishing.
And then when Shirley came
out with Out on a Limb,
my mother was very
involved with that.
In fact, she went and she
took workshops from Shirley
and learned quite
a bit from her.
So while other kids were in the
mall and shopping for clothes,
I was riding horses and going
to trans-channeling sessions
on the weekend with my mom.
I think my first
trans-channeling session
was in this lady's
basement in Long Island.
I think I was
about 16 years old.
My mother had you
have to see this.
You have to see this.
So I learned very
early on what a medium,
what a trans-channeler was.
Some of the psychics she
was going to back then
are now some of our
world-renowned psychics
now that many years later.
So she also taught me
a lot about dreams.
Because my mom's
a psychotherapist.
So it's interesting
because my family has
a very high level of education.
So we covered all the
traditional bases.
My mother has a
doctorate in psychology.
She's a psychoanalytic
social worker.
And so she really had the
mental health background.
But she also had the
curiosity that there was more.
That was from my grandmother.
And my mother also has
very prophetic dreams.
So her intuitive abilities
came from her prophetic dreams.
So we would sit down at the
breakfast table, my sister
and I. My mother would be
standing making breakfast.
And she says I had
a dream last night.
And we went uh-oh.
[LAUGHING]
We could get by with nothing
because no matter what
we could keep from her
during the daylight,
she would get it in her dreams.
And she would--
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>COOPER: --tell
us, OK, you're going
to do-- she figured out both
of my sister's pregnancies,
actually all three of them.
To this day.
I mean, she's still around now.
>>REGINA: Did she bust you
on some things you would have
preferred--
>>COOPER: Oh, big time.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
She knew everything.
And it was scary.
And she also was very
good at sizing people up.
Now of course, she had the
mental health background.
So that added into her
ability to do analytical work.
But she also had a gut feeling.
And one of the things I
remember very distinctly way
before-- I rejected this
work for quite some time
until I was in my late teens.
But I remember her doing
her private practice session
with her people at the house.
And so she'd have
clients come in.
And she would do family
therapy or couples therapy.
And she would come
out of the room.
And she'd say, you
know, I don't know
where all that came from
but I know that I just
channelled that session.
And I would hear that
as part of-- you know,
she said something
else came in and helped
these people through me.
It wasn't me analyzing
their specific problem.
>>REGINA: And now, you were a
young girl still at this time?
>>COOPER: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: How did
you feel about that?
>>COOPER: I was
riding horses and I
was going to school and stuff.
And I was competitive
in the horseback riding,
in the equestrian world.
So I was always
try to figure out
how do I fit this into my life?
Like right what is this?
And I was very nervous
when I was riding.
I was jumping fences.
I was just a nervous-- I had
kind of a nervous personality
type.
So I would kind
of lean into some
of the meditations and
things that my mom was doing.
She would have Shirley
MacLaine's chakra cleansing
video on and all
those types of things.
So it was just kind
of by association.
But honestly, I rejected
it for quite some time
until my life got hard enough.
And I think that happens for
people is that I was surrounded
by it, not really knowing.
The first time, though,
that I really remember,
like that defining
moment where I
went from just being
the innocent bystander
kid whose mom does some pretty
interesting things to actually
stepping into it is we went
through this wonderful store
out on Long Island.
It was a New Age store
called Dreams East.
And my mother loved it.
They had crystals
and the incense.
And who doesn't?
>>REGINA: This was when?
In the '80s?
>>COOPER: In the
'80s, yeah, early.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
when those shops flourished
across the country.
There were a lot of good ones.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
And this one was just
really off the charts.
And I remember walking
through the bookstore.
My mom was, of course, at the
counter analyzing the crystals.
And a book fell off the
shelf right in front of me.
>>REGINA: Which book?
>>COOPER: Just like they said.
Shakti Gawain's
"Living in the Light."
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And that's just the message
you needed in that moment.
>>COOPER: Just the message.
And I remember reading
that book cover to cover.
I started in the car.
It took me about a day.
I read the entire
book cover to cover.
And that night, I dreamt
of dolphins, all night,
just blue waters and dolphins.
And I knew something
had shifted.
And that was, I believe, 1986.
From that point on, that was
the beginning of my journey.
That was when I started to
question and to see things.
Not just because my
mother said so or just
because my grandmother
gave me some wisdom.
It was almost like they were
giving a catalog, a reference
catalog.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>COOPER: And then
as my life started
to take hold as an adult,
I was able to go back
to those references
and say, ah, yeah,
Oma said that to me or
Mom said that to me.
But that book, that book.
I eventually, on my
show, I eventually
for Shakti's anniversary of
the book, 25th anniversary,
she came on my show.
And I interviewed.
So it was like a
wonderful full circle.
It was phenomenal.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
well, how lucky you
were to have such a lineage.
Now in your own life,
were you noticing
that you were getting
intuitive hits on things, even
if you were rejecting this as
a serious path of any kind?
>>COOPER: I was very
sensitive, from the time
I was a little girl.
I mean, my mom would take
me to the grocery store.
And if I heard the carts clank
together, I was screaming.
I was very, very sensitive
when I was riding horses.
And what I always
knew, well, number one,
is I kind of started to really
communicate with animals.
We always had pets.
And I was with the
horses and everything.
And I could sort
of sense what they
were feeling when
they were feeling
under the weather,
that type of thing.
So that was kind of my-- not
that I started out as an animal
communicator, but
I did notice that I
would get a hunch about my dog
and the dog would get sick.
Or those types of things, little
synchronistic types of things.
I really first, though,
stepped into really
seeing my psychic
ability sort of burst
to the scene when I went walking
with a friend of mine one day.
And I had just want
to a psychic reading.
If fact, she had gone with me.
And the gal held a piece
of jewelry of mine.
>>REGINA: Psychometry.
>>COOPER: Psychometry, right.
And she read.
She did a beautiful
job of reading me.
And I said this is
interesting because I
wonder if I could do that.
I wander if I could
hold someone's jewelry.
Because the psychic kept
saying, yes, you can do this.
You can do this.
So my friend Margaret and
I went out to the park.
And I said give
me your earrings.
I held her earring.
And I had this
long walking stick.
And it was kind of curved.
And it was skitching
across the ground.
And so we started playing.
I thought I was playing.
This happens for people
as they're discovering.
You think you're playing around.
I said, oh, well, you know
know, there was this guy.
And he was from Cincinnati.
And I started telling
her this story.
And she starts gasping.
She goes that's true.
I was like stop it.
And she says I'm not kidding.
Well, for the next two hours,
walked around the park,
skitching this stick.
I thought it was the stick.
I didn't think it was me.
But the stick was just a rhythm.
It was just a rhythm.
I was just how I was
connecting at that time.
So entrepreneurial
Mari, typical me,
once she told me I was
right, I went ahead
and had business
cards made, of course.
I'm a psychic.
[LAUGHTER]
That's it.
I have to go into business now.
And I was still I was in
corporate America by that time.
>>REGINA: Because you're
very driven, competitive,
and so forth.
So you're not going to let
that opportunity slip by.
And let's talk about psychometry
for a minute for people
who aren't familiar with it.
Because for me, that was
one of the first entrees
too was a little class
in the '80s, early '80s,
on psychic phenomena
and developing it.
And same thing, it
somebody's ring.
So let's talk about psychometry.
>>COOPER: Psychometry is
when you take something
that a person wears
on their body.
And what people don't realize
is that-- of course we all
know, especially on this
show-- know that we're all
made up of energy.
But even our inanimate objects
also take on, have a vibration.
And they take on the
vibration and actually can
record the history of the
person wearing the object.
So when you hold that piece
of metal, particularly
jewelry, good gold, silver,
that type of thing, a watch.
>>REGINA: Things very
personal to the person.
>>COOPER: Very
That psychic can pick up some
of those timelines for you
and the energies
for you as well.
>>REGINA: And it's
a fun thing to do.
>>COOPER: It's a
great way to play.
>>REGINA: Like you say,
initially you're just playing.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: And of course,
the enemy of that
is being concerned whether
you're right or wrong.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: That just shuts
it down really fast.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: That's why so many
people have, quote, beginners
luck in these areas because
they're simply open.
And they're not riding
themselves hard.
And information just flows in.
You think like you, it's silly.
But it's not.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: So it's a
good way for people
to start playing and
developing their own intuition.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And you know, it got
to the point where
as you get more
confident, when you hear
someone say, yes, that's me.
That's it.
Wow.
It opens up the gateways
for you to receive
even more information.
So that outside validation is
actually a very good thing.
And that's why in
come in and play,
you don't have all
these hang ups,
like am I going to be accurate.
And just charged this
person this much money.
And are they going to
want their money back?
It really it's a way.
>>REGINA: OK.
So you tried it once.
You were good at it.
You made up your business card.
So then what happened?
>>COOPER: Then I tanked.
I sat down--
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Now you're
attached to the outcome.
It's not beginner's
luck in effect anymore.
>>COOPER: That's right.
Someone came to my
house and I said, uh-oh.
I had no idea what I was doing.
It wasn't a play time
in the park anymore.
And I said, well, maybe I need
to look into this a little bit
further.
That's the truth.
I did.
I tanked.
And so that lady left the house.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Did she ask
for her money back?
>>COOPER: Actually, no
she didn't because I
got a few things right.
But I kind of shortened
the reading and everything.
And I just said,
OK, clearly there's
more to this than just
walking around the park.
And so I went into corporate
America at that point.
I had gotten my MBA.
And I was working.
And I was hating
every minute of it.
I walked in there and I just
knew, this isn't for me.
I just in two days,
this is not for me.
But I was developing
my intuitive abilities
because I wanted to get out.
I wanted to figure out.
And I didn't necessarily
want to be a psychic.
But I wanted to-- I knew that
there was something in me that
was driving me, that was
drawing me forward to it,
so caused me to want to study.
So I left, eventually
left corporate America.
>>REGINA: How long
were you there?
>>COOPER: Eight years.
Eights year.
Major telecommunications
company.
My family was thrilled.
She works for the phone company.
Everybody needs a phone.
You'll have a job forever.
>>REGINA: Hated it.
>>COOPER: And I hated it.
Hated it.
But it gave me a good
solid business background.
So I tell people
don't necessarily
quit your day job to come
and do all of this stuff.
But because it did
help eventually.
When you start a
business, you still
do have to know how
to run a business.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COOPER: So the real
sort of turning point,
though, was that I was engaged.
And my fiance passed
away very suddenly.
And it was devastating.
I was in my 20s.
And I remember standing
on a hill at the cemetery,
looking out across all of the
tombstones or grave markers.
Tombstones.
And I had this moment
where I felt like,
look at all these talent
that's in this graveyard.
Like how rich is this graveyard
with all this talent, all
these unsung songs, all of this
poetry that was never written.
And it really hit me.
Two things hit me.
One was that we go too soon
with our dreams intact.
Too many people go with their
dreams intact, they die.
Because they get caught
up in bills and money.
>>REGINA: Unfulfilled dreams.
>>COOPER: That's right.
And also that there
had to be a way that I
could speak with him still.
Because he was very, very
spiritual and very prophetic
himself.
So I knew that there
were two things going on.
One was that I wanted to help
people to find their passion
and to find their
right livelihood
and to make sure that they
were living a fulfilled life.
And the other was that there
had to be something more
and a way to communicate,
there had to be something more.
So I start to
really explore that.
And it was a very
heartfelt exploration.
And I left corporate.
And I took time to go and
work with Doreen Virtue.
And that's when I got certified.
And I learned the mechanics
of some of the things
I was doing on a natural basis
but I got more confidence
in how to do that.
And so the other
thing that I did was I
took a class in
mediumship because I
heard about James
Van Praagh and some
of these other big mediums.
And I said, OK, I know
I can talk to him.
I know I can talk to him.
For a full year, I went from
medium to medium to medium.
And they all said
you can do this.
He won't come through.
I mean, the biggest
ones in the country.
I had to wait for six
months for some of them.
>>REGINA: Because you were
skating on it because you
wouldn't connect yourself.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
And so I went to one class that
happened to be on my fiance's
what would have
been his birthday.
And I said, if you don't
come through today,
I'm never doing this again.
Not doing it.
And that day I sat down and I
went to this mediumship class
thinking that I will
learn about mediumship.
And she said you all are doing
to do mediumship yourselves.
And we swapped pictures.
And I ended up doing a
reading for a lady next to me.
And she was crying and sobbing.
The teacher was so excited.
She asked me to go
around the entire class.
Ended up reading
everyone in the class.
And that's how I discovered
these mediumship abilities.
So I think that, yes,
that I'm an intuitive
and, yes, I have
generations in my family.
But I think also
what was happening
was that I was being taught
the awakening process of what
was already within
me that we all have.
That we all have.
And started to, in
very haphazard ways,
learn that there is a process.
There is a step-by-step process
of how to receive guidance.
And I did study all
different types of religions
while once I left corporate.
I studied Buddhism.
I studied Hinduism.
I studied the Tao.
I studied all the metaphysical
things and spiritualists.
And of course, I
was raised Catholic.
So I went through 12 years.
>>REGINA: What did you find as
maybe a single common thread
that was useful
from all of them?
>>COOPER: The one thing
was that everybody
is to teaching how to ask.
First recognize that
there's something greater
than ourselves.
I call it the God of your
understanding, that energy
that you can turn to
that goes beyond this.
And secondly, we were taught a
tremendous amount of doctrine
and how to ask for something.
How to ask for favor.
How to ask for healing.
How to ask for money,
a boyfriend, prayer.
>>REGINA: In all the religions.
>>COOPER: A house.
In all religions.
There's always a some sort
of doctrine on how to ask,
whether it's a rosary
bead, or it's prayer beads,
or it's the stations
of the cross, whatever
those different things
are we were asking.
My thought was if there's
so many systems of asking,
wouldn't there be an equally
robust system of getting
answers, of receiving
the answers.
How do we decipher the
answers that we actually get?
Because that's where
people-- we keep
asking and asking and asking
and asking and asking and then
waiting, like where?
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>COOPER: What?
What?
Was that a sign?
Oh, wait, wait.
And unless it's the
lottery on lottery day,
we feel like maybe we missed it.
And what we're not
realizing is that there
is a language coming at us
24 hours a day 7 days a week.
My grandmother was more
in the waking state.
My mother was receiving
the messages in her dreams.
It's 24/7.
And it's on all the time.
And each religion
has their version
of the receiving of the
answers but that's usually
shrouded for the higher ups.
That's the power is the
language of answers.
Because if you don't
have the answers
and you keep having to ask,
would you keep coming back?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Very good point.
>>COOPER: So that's
the piece like when
I studied the Kabbalah.
The mysteries, those
mysteries, were really
reserved for rabbis
over 40 years old, men.
And so as I started to piece
all these things together,
it was like but what
about the answer prayer?
Is it just, OK, here's a cup.
I asked for a cup.
Here's a cup.
OK.
There it is.
No.
There's steps.
So people get a little
off in their mindset
about answers because they
think, OK, well, I asked.
I did a vision board.
It's law of attraction.
I did all this.
And now I expect the Rolls Royce
to boom, down out of the sky
like somehow.
But what they don't realize
is that at the minute
you k-- and this is
for any religion,
because this applies
to everything--
your energetic communication
system kicks into gear to start
you on the path to receiving
what you've asked for.
And that's really
where my career kind of
started to get very
interesting for me
to see over the years-- it took
me seven years to write what
I've written-- but over the
years to see the commonalities,
to see that each religion
has it in some way,
shape, or form it applies, and
that we're all born with it.
These are natural,
energetic capacities
that we have that are overlaid
over our physical body.
If I learned anything
from my grandmother
it was that we always if
we look beyond the surface,
we need to always consider--
I call them pillars--
but there's four
legs of the table.
There's the physical,
there's the mental,
there's the emotional, and
there's the energetic aspect
of anything.
Of anything.
And so you can look at
this cup and you can say,
OK, physically it's a blue cup.
And mentally I like
it because it's clean.
And I don't feel
stress around it.
It's keeping me happy mentally.
Emotionally it's nice and cool.
I can relate to the water.
But energetically, there's
a vibration of this as well.
There's a vibration of this cup.
And it might seem
like a silly cup.
But you know what, if you
drink some out of a cup
that feels like it has a
higher vibration to you,
you'll receive the liquid
in it a lot better than you
would otherwise.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now you've
analyzed all of this.
And you have started
understanding
that we have to start dialing
into these protocols ourselves,
which you ended up
calling the aha factor.
And let's talk about the word
aha because everybody thinks,
oh, Oprah coined the term.
>>COOPER: Oh, yes, yes, yes.
>>REGINA: No.
OK.
So that's your work of
Professor Deborah Tannen, right.
Let's talk about her
and what she contributed
regarding the notion of aha.
>>COOPER: Well, aha is really
about that sense of energy
and physicality connecting.
I say it's a glimpse
of consciousness.
It's a glimpse of consciousness.
So when we actually
perceive how our bodies--
we feel a sensation and then we
get an insight at the same time
and we ignite that.
And that's that aha.
So we're usually led to
that by three pieces.
I called it the anatomy
of the aha moment.
And the first piece is
our energetic senses.
So we have the clair.
They call them the four clairs.
And a lot of people know
these, the clairvoyants,
which is an energetic
site overlays
over your physical site.
Clairaudience, which
is energetic hearing.
Clairsentience, which
is energetic feeling.
And claircognizance,
which is a sense
of knowing, knowing
that you know
but not really
necessarily knowing how.
Those are the first place
that an aha moment comes to.
Whenever you get an
insight, whenever
you get any kind of information,
it comes to those four senses
first.
That immediately kicks
in to your physiology.
And that's where it
starts to feel like an aha
because you get the goosebumps.
Or you might feel a little
sense of heat if it's negative.
You might feel a
little sense of nausea.
You might feel little
dizziness sometimes.
But most people feel them.
They call them the truth bumps.
And that's your body letting
you know, yes, you have now
received-- mail's in, you've
received an energetic message.
Part three is the environment.
And the environment
comes and supports you.
So this is where
our energy comes in.
And it says, OK, we received
the energetic sense.
You may not even
realize you did.
You get a little
deja vu, you hear
a little lyric, a song
in your clairaudience,
the lyrics to a song.
It's trying to
send you a message.
But you might miss that.
So you get the goosebumps.
You say, wait a second,
I got goosebumps.
And then what happens is
your environment starts
to send you what we call signs,
symbols, and synchronicities.
So those three things happen.
And that's when you know.
That's when people say, oh,
I think I had an aha moment.
Because they get the sense, they
get that physiological feeling,
and then they start to
get these signs, symbols,
and synchronicity.
So you might see
repetitive numbers.
You might overhear
someone talking about what
you were just thinking about.
You might get that wayward phone
call that person you were just
thinking of.
Those three things make up the
anatomy of that aha moment.
And once you know what those
are and you start to just
to connect the dots.
It's happening to you anyway.
That's when you start to put
one aha moment next to the next
to the next.
And it actually leads,
the breadcrumbs,
to the thing that
you've been asking
or in your prayer work and all
of the other different ways
of asking.
>>REGINA: Which often
won't come to manifest
if you're not
paying any attention
to the trail of breadcrumbs.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: You're
walking right past it.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: We're walking right
past our own good all the time.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
For the last three days,
every day-- maybe four days.
I don't know, all
week certainly.
I'm always looking at the clock
at 1:11 and 4:11 and 11:11.
I mean, at 4:44 ,
1:11, and 11:11.
>>COOPER: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's just has
worked out that that way
the last few days.
And I thought, you know I
need to slow down a little bit
and analyze some of it.
One's my birth moment.
So that's that.
But, yeah.
But I have noticed--
>>COOPER: 4:44 is the
number of the angels.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
my-- I was born at 4:44.
>>COOPER: Awesome.
>>REGINA: But the others,
the 11:11 and the 1:11,
I have my own
interpretation what that is.
But it's interesting that
like clockwork, literally,
every day, I've been dialing in.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
And you know what,
it's a sign to folks
when they start to see those
repetitive numbers that they
are being communicated
to and that they should
start paying attention because
there's a lot more for them.
There's messages waiting.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK.
So one of the things
you talk about
is how to get what we
desire and deserve.
Now, that always ends up kind of
a confusing area of all of this
in terms of manifestations.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: The word deserve
is really heavily loaded.
So let's decipher what that
means in your parlance.
>>COOPER: Well, worthiness.
Big, big term.
I mean, everything
goes back to it.
I'm doing a lot of
writing right now
in self-love and worthiness.
And I've been really
contemplating this.
Because no matter my readings
when I'm working with clients
or teaching or
whatever, any issue,
it all comes back
down to that point.
So here's the thing, worthiness
is about understanding
that you are of God
and that you are
of that connection in
that you're born with it.
And I think that
people get worthiness
confused with capabilities.
And especially in the US.
OK.
So we are taught, OK,
you're born, you're cute,
you're wonderful.
Now on the energetic sense,
God, angels, and everybody else,
on that senses says worthy
because just by showing up.
She's of the essence, of the
source energy, et cetera.
But we forget that because
now we learn how to please.
We're taught, OK, well, if
I cry I'm going to get fed.
And then at some
point when I don't cry
get fed because I'm
pleasing my parents.
I learn how that if I
can do these things,
if I can get my flash cards out
and I do my homework on time
and I'm pleasing
and I'm pleasing.
So we have a tendency
to at some point
transpose parental
capabilities and approval
with spiritual worthiness.
And they're two
different things.
And of course in the
church and the religions,
they've all talked about the
Father, the Father, the Father.
And I'm the daughter
of the Father.
So we have this sort
of preconceived notion
that we now have to in
a very parental child,
parental kind of relationship,
prove ourselves constantly.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
prove our worthiness.
>>COOPER: Prove our worthiness.
Prove that we're
worthy of receiving
these things we're asking for.
We asked daddy for a new bike,
OK, you do your homework,
you clean your room, you wash
the laundry, you get the bike.
And so we go to
God and we say I'd
like the relationship
of a lifetime
and then you go around
trying to prove yourself.
And then when a lot of those
proving things don't work,
we start to feel like maybe
I'm not worthy to receive it.
Here's the separation in that.
The worthiness part
you're born with.
You can't, no matter
how much charity
you do, no matter how much
any good deeds you do,
you can't get more worthy than
you were when you showed up
because you're of God.
And that's your nature.
It's like the rain falls
from the sky, comes
in the form of a cloud, it
rains, it goes into the ocean,
it evaporates back
up into the rain.
It's still all water.
It's just changing form.
So that worthiness is intact.
Now as far as your
capabilities, I've
had so many people say but,
Mari, I've asked for this.
I asked for this healing.
And I've done all the stuff.
I've helped the people.
I've gotten the degrees.
I've done all
these things right.
And I say, OK, that's
your capabilities.
That's your resume.
But that doesn't dictate
whether you're going
to receive this thing or not.
So and in fact by you
working so hard to live up
to these capabilities and
get more and more accolades,
you're literally saying in a
very covert way I'm not worthy.
And ultimately, the day
that you say you know what,
I deserve this.
Have you ever
gotten to that point
where you say you know what,
I'm so tired of the struggle.
I'm going to stop.
I deserve this.
And I'm done.
And then boom, it shows up.
Because you tapped back in your
true essence, that true core.
>>REGINA: And that's a very
potent message for people
because, especially
in the Western world,
we're trying to prove
ourselves all day long to one
person or another.
I mean, it's just how we're
wired, especially in the Judeo
Christian world to prove
yourself, your worthiness.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
And the Jew.
And the Hebrew.
I mean, we have-- and
especially being women.
I know we're dealing
with both men and women
as far as audience is concerned.
But as women, it's the pleasing.
And depending on
the generation, I
see definitely women who are
in the '50s, that '50s wives
thing, it's hard to sort
of separate yourself
from all of those expectations
and all of those roles.
I'll tell you one the most
powerful days of my life
was when I left
corporate America and all
the titles, the budgets,
and the signing abilities,
and all that left.
And people say,
well, who are you?
Who are you with?
I'm like, I'm Mari.
And who are you with?
I'm with Mari.
And it was a open frontier.
It was really powerful.
>>REGINA: Now let's talk
about sort of one term
would be scalable affluence.
So you are tired of being broke,
for example, just sick of it.
And certainly everyone is worthy
of a dignified life, where
we can have a life that
we can feel engaged with,
proud of, on whatever level.
But what happened through the
years in the New Age movement
and a lot of the
prosperity training
is people became-- I don't
want to say greedy, per se,
that's a judgmental
term-- but thought,
hey, if I'm worthy of $10,
I'm worthy of $1 million.
Right.
And yet, we're
still in a system--
and I'm not arguing
for limitation,
I just want to say that-- but
yet, we're still in a world
where those things somehow
have to come about,
be manufactured on some
level, energetically drawn in,
and yet, the
individual themselves
may not need the million
dollars, for example.
What they need is to have
something, whether a house
or enough where they
can feel good and secure
about their lives.
But, again, this whole notion of
what I deserve comes into play.
I want $1 million, I don't
want a $100 or $100,000,
I want $1 million.
And then, of course, people are
terribly disappointed because,
well, for one, that skill
set may not have anything
to do with money or even to know
how to draw that kind of money
in, which is just
another skill set.
So how do you speak to
people on that level?
>>COOPER: Well, I think when
you are intuitively fluent,
I think there's three
core pieces here.
One is if you're
fluent intuitively,
you can pretty
much-- and this might
sound like it's a
little contradictory,
I don't mean it to be-- but you
can pretty much have whatever
you desire.
But you have to
understand that it
may come to you in a way that's
completely different than what
your mind thinks it should be.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>COOPER: So if you understand
how to energetically interpret
the signs and symbols and
synchronicities coming to you,
like that anatomy we were
talking about earlier,
then when you start to
ask for these things--
I think the problem
is when people say,
OK, I want $1
million, they expect,
OK, it's going to drop
in out of the sky.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
That it's going to be
quite literal in that way.
>>COOPER: Right.
And what will happen
is you'll be led to,
of course in finance, God
will not deliver $1 million
into chaos.
If you're chaotic
in your finances--
>>REGINA: Well, that's
what I'm saying.
Yeah.
>>COOPER: So, yeah,
your breadcrumbs
that are being left for
you, start at the beginning,
start with where you are.
And we get very
caught up, especially
once we did the vision board and
the Secret and all that stuff,
that we're very far out, we got
very far into the big vision.
>>REGINA: That's what
I'm saying, yeah.
>>COOPER: And I really
believe that you
need to have the big vision.
It's like having the picture
of the puzzle on the box.
But then it breaks
down into pieces
and then those pieces
needed to be ordered.
And the ordered steps to
get to that big vision,
are you-- the question is,
are you ready to do the steps?
And are you willing
to do the steps?
And just because you can't
get the million dollars today,
does that now mean that
the law of attraction
or that these
things don't exist?
No.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
and I can give you
one example of a woman I know.
She's a talented woman.
She's from Austria.
She's an esthetician
and doing her business.
But along the way
in her life when
she was spending
time in Italy, she
became friends with
an elderly neighbor,
a man who his wife was gone,
and she just kind to him.
And so she would bring him some
dinner or some soup or whatnot.
Well, when his death came,
she was now an American.
She received a letter that he
had left his estate to her.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: This kind of thing.
>>COOPER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It was
not any way in which
she would have ever
guessed she would have
a significant, potentially
significant, amount of money
coming into her life.
But she had subconsciously
engineered that just
through acts of
grace and kindness.
That's just one example.
And I always thought
that was so beautiful.
>>COOPER: I love that.
I love that example.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no, it turns
out he had no other heirs.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: So he left everything
to her, his home, his property,
everything.
>>COOPER: And she was
there in her heart.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COOPER: She wasn't there
trying to mechanically create
this millions of dollars.
I think that you can
take that example
and I think that for
those who haven't
been a caretaker to someone
who left a big inheritance,
the universe will configure.
That's why I say, don't put
a limit on what you desire.
But also don't put a limit
on how you get there.
Because we have a
tendency to think,
OK, the only way I can
get to that kind of money
is big investments, to
marry into it, for somebody,
you know, an inheritance,
or to work really hard
for a whole lot of years.
We put those limitations on us.
When we step into that
combining the energetic
with the physical, we open up
to all those possibilities.
>>REGINA: Well,
and I rely on this,
I have most of my
adult life, I'm
not nearly as clever as the
higher aspects of myself
in any guidance.
I just put it out there.
And I'm pretty chilled about how
it comes back most of the time
because it almost
always comes back.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: But I'm
not attached to how.
This is another thing
we need to talk about.
I'm not attached to
timelines necessarily.
That's one thing I found in
the process of bringing to life
what you wish to have or need to
or want to experience in life,
you can't really put
a time limit on it.
>>COOPER: Yes.
I think you're right.
And I think that here's
what happens, people
come to me in a panic because
they have a big issue that
has a time limit on it.
>>REGINA: Right.
Doesn't translate.
>>COOPER: And it
doesn't translate.
And so that's where you have
to be willing to operate kind
of almost parallel,
where when somebody
has that kind of
time limit, oh, Mari,
I'm going to lose my house.
Oh my gosh.
The bills are coming
and I don't know
and I need this
million dollars now.
We have to separate that
out and say, OK, if you go,
you can focus in two ways.
You can focus on what is the
divine solution and divine
resolution of the
situation for today
and allow it to come in
and manifest for today.
And then have your
bigger vision,
which is an ultimately
what is the--
and you may very well,
a lot of people do it,
manifest the biggest solution
for today's mundane problem.
But most of the time, it's
hard because we can't even
see that big vision
because we get swallowed up
in the mundane for today.
So my favorite mantra is divine
solution, divine resolution
in this moment, at this time.
And really teasing that out
and taking it moment by moment.
>>REGINA: And it might mean that
the grand divine resolution is
you're supposed
to lose that house
and move on down the road.
That might be perfectly divine.
>>COOPER: Absolutely.
I think a lot of times
we get caught up,
because I think that's
a really good point, is
that we get caught up in what
our idea of what the ultimate--
>>REGINA: This is a
part of listening.
>>COOPER: Yes.
The ultimate is.
Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So also another area is
that, you as you said,
you've communicated
with outside beings,
you learned your mediumship
early on, and so forth.
And there's always this
question with people,
what are they connecting to?
Are they connecting to
their own higher self?
Is this a vertical axis of
information that's available?
Because the highest
aspect of ourselves
is certainly capable
of giving-- it's
able of taking in the
view in all directions,
beyond time and space.
We're capable of doing that.
But oftentimes, we may not
be originally connecting
with ourselves.
Might be there's an
intermediary of some kind that's
helping us along in that path.
Let's talk about the
distinction, why it is we
can't just automatically
jump into connection
with the finest aspect
of self, who guides are
and why they're needed.
>>COOPER: OK.
Three things.
There's three-- I'm always
with these threes, right.
But there's three types of
energetic communication.
So the first type is intuition.
So your intuition is
built for you personally.
So if we look at
ourselves, a lot of people
think we have a spirit
within the body.
But it was actually we're
a big ball of energy
and we take on a little vessel
as a body for this lifetime
and then we have the
bigger version of us
outside of us helping us to
navigate our world while we're
in this particular body.
The piece of us
that's in the body
needs a way to communicate to
the greater part of ourselves.
The language that
swings, the pendulum
that swings back and
forth between the two,
it's the language of intuition.
So that's those signs,
symbols, synchronicities,
and the aha moments.
OK.
From there, we also
have the ability
to communicate with each
other very dynamically
in an energetic form.
That would be called telepathy.
Now, a lot of people think
that's magicians, carnivals,
parlor tricks.
>>REGINA: It's
happening all the time.
>>COOPER: But it's
You have kids, you're using
telepathy, especially little
tiny kids that
aren't speaking yet.
You have animals.
You have your
plants, your flowers.
We can have telepathic
communication, basically
telepathy to keep it
simple, if you think of it
as nonverbal communication with
something else in a body, kids,
people, kids, animals,
that type of thing.
>>REGINA: Plants.
>>COOPER: Plants, exactly.
Then the final
part, the third part
of that energetic communication
system, is channeling.
So the channeling is when
we talk to something that's
not necessarily in a body.
OK.
So that might be your
angels, your guides,
it could be the weather,
people channel the weather.
That is where you also go into
that bigger version of you
and you can download
those creative moments
when you're in the flow,
you're in the zone,
you're channeling that.
You can even connect with,
like when I was dancing,
I would connect with famous
dancers from the past
and channel that energy
through my dancing.
If I got stuck in a step
and then all of a sudden
I could get those
counts on that step
because I was taking
on that energy.
So those three pieces when
you put that all together,
that's when we have
that aha factor,
that energetic communication
system that's robust,
and it allows us to communicate
with these different aspects.
So people get a little
confused for sure
because you're like, OK,
am I talking to an angel?
>>REGINA: Well,
originally, that's a,
yeah, a big field to navigate.
>>COOPER: Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So let's say
you're sitting with someone
and they feel like
there's something that's
not of their conscious
mind coming in,
how do they begin
deciphering whether it's them
or whether it's other?
>>COOPER: Well, that's
where you have are you
getting those three signs?
So if we go back to this those
four energetic communication,
those energies, those
four energetic languages.
>>REGINA: Well, let's say
you're getting all those things,
but you don't know if that
information is coming maybe
from a guide or an angel
or you see what I'm saying?
>>COOPER: Yes, yes, yes.
>>REGINA: Because
people get really
hung up on these definitions,
where did that come from?
>>COOPER: Yes.
Yes.
So if you're getting
a physical-- most
of the time what will happen
if it's a guide or an angel,
they're going to send you a sign
that it's a guide or an angel.
You might get, like you're
seeing the number 444,
which is definitely the
number of the angels.
You may see a feather.
You may see pennies.
They use your environment to
let you know that they're there.
Now, one of the
other big things that
helps with deciphering who's
actually speaking to you
and what they're actually
doing is your clairvoyance.
You can get a little bit of a
vision if you close your eyes
and you say, OK, please present
yourself and let me know is
this somebody who's-- because
there's different realms
of guidance.
We angelic realms, we
have galactic realms,
we have the elemental realms,
and those different beings
will come to you.
And they have different
characteristics
that they'll present.
So for the most simple version
of it what we're talking about
is most of the
time like an angel,
you'll feel a
sense of lightness,
sense of wholeness,
you'll feel a sense of peace.
When you're dealing with more
of a fairy or an elemental,
they're closer actually
to us in human form.
They're closer to that energy.
They're more sparkly
and sprightly.
And they're more about
instant manifestation.
You can't find the right
shoes for that dress
and then all of a sudden
you go to the store
and there they are.
That's more of like a
fairy kind of energy.
Galactic energy is when you're
getting inventions, downloads
of-- like Steve Jobs, tremendous
amount of galactic energy.
Anything that's going to change
the landscape of the planet
is usually downloaded,
cures for disease,
new inventions, new technology.
If you're dealing
with your computer,
you call on galactic
energy to help you.
>>REGINA: Oh, God,
do I need there.
[LAUGHTER]
That's one area.
>>COOPER: Yep.
For sure.
>>REGINA: Does what it wants.
>>COOPER: For sure, absolutely.
And one thing I will say is
don't curse your machinery.
>>REGINA: I know.
I know.
I was warned by my ex, who
loves his computers, that I
had a bad attitude when
things didn't go right.
And so of course, things
kept going not right.
And so I've learned to
be more appreciative.
I love my computer.
>>COOPER: Well,
just as a side note,
you can also call on
archangel Michael.
He's one of those angels
that actually handles--
>>REGINA: He's a great tech?
>>COOPER: For tech, yep.
Yep.
>>REGINA: That's good to know.
>>COOPER: Just a little
sidebar on archangel Michael.
>>REGINA: Well, also as you
were speaking a little bit ago
about the four different ways
in which we access information,
I think that for people
if you're a clairaudient
or you're clairvoyant, sometimes
it's a little easier for people
to tap into that because
there's some tangible evidence,
as it were, they can hear
or they can see something.
When you come into more of
the sentience part of it,
it's a little
different because it's
like, God, I didn't
see anything,
I didn't hear anything,
but I just know this.
I just know it's true.
And that requires,
I think, a person
to have a lot of
repeat experience
in order to develop their
confidence that what they know
they know.
It's beyond feeling.
And there's feeling as well.
But they just simply know.
>>COOPER: Well, those two things
you're kind of combining them.
So the claircognizance
is when you--
>>REGINA: Claircognizance,
yes, where you know.
>>COOPER: You just know.
>>REGINA: Right.
In clairsentience you feel.
>>COOPER: Right.
And that's kind of-- now, here's
a good distinction for them
because some people
get confused,
is this my mental mind?
Am I making this up or
is this my deep thing?
>>REGINA: That's a
big one for people.
>>COOPER: It is
a really big one.
And it's a very valid point.
So here's how you tell the
difference, a real quick way.
Mental mind is always up
and outside of your body.
It always feels like it's
kind of almost like a cartoon
caption over your head, bang,
bang, bang, it goes very fast.
It changes a lot,
like ricochet rabbit.
Oh, you should do this or
maybe you should that, OK,
do a pros and cons list.
That's mental.
When you're dealing with
the actual true clairs,
with your actual true
genuine intuitive senses,
it's very down low in
the body, very deep
in the body, kind of almost
behind your belly button.
You'll feel a sense, it's very
soft and also very repetitive
of the same thing.
So for me when I was
avoiding writing my book
and I was saying maybe
I'll do this kind of event
and that kind of
product and this.
And I kept saying write
the book, write the book,
write the book.
And, oh, I have this idea and
that idea, I meat a new person.
Oh yeah, I could-- no book.
>>REGINA: No, but that
silence, still message.
I mean, for me if I'm
talking with my self,
it's very specific.
I find that the
information will follow
very similar pathways
of experience
so you know how to recognize it.
>>COOPER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And it
changes over the years.
And now it's simply
almost like molasses
spilling down the side of
my-- this is the right side?
Yeah.
The right side of my
brain, inside the brain,
it's just an oozy smooth fall
of words that's very quiet
and moves down into the body.
>>COOPER: That's a
really good distinction.
>>REGINA: And so I mean,
for me it's that way.
For someone else,
it may be different.
But we have to start
paying attention
when we get these messages.
When we're asking
and we're starting
to receive, pay attention
to these sensations too
to understand by
repeating it, you
know kind of what
you're tapping into.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
And we're all born
with all four clairs.
So we're born with the
capacity to do all of them.
But we usually have what I
call one screensaver clair,
one default, one that
we kind of naturally.
And one of the best examples
that was taught to me
is to ask yourself when
you go to a movie, what
do you remember the most?
So when you walk
out of the movie,
do you first comment
on the relationship
that the characters were having?
Do you first comment on
the score, the music?
Are you the one who always
knows the set, the curtains
and the furniture?
Or you the one who knew the
end of the movie before it got
started?
From the beginning,
you knew the end.
If you're the type it looks
at the set, you're more likely
then you're defaulting on
clairvoyance, your visual.
If you remember the score and
that's how you were moved,
your clairaudience is
your dominant clair.
If you knew the end of
the movie before the end,
your claircognizance,
kind of that knowing,
was your dominant clair.
And if you were sobbing
and totally involved
in the relationship
with the characters,
that's you're clairsentience.
So when you know what
that dominant clair is--
>>REGINA: That's a
good little exercise
for people to go away
with and think about.
>>COOPER: Yeah, for sure.
>>REGINA: Then you know
what to start looking for.
>>COOPER: What to
start looking for, yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no, that's
a very good distinction.
And sometimes you're
all of the above.
>>COOPER: Yeah, oh, yeah.
You eventually do
have all of the above.
So if you want to be
professional channel
or a professional at this,
you do develop all four.
And that's how when
you go to psychic
or a professional intuitive,
that's what they're doing.
They're using all four.
They may say, oh,
I'm a clairvoyant.
But they're tapping,
they're getting--
when they sit with you
or they're listening
to you on the phone, they're
getting all four about you
in some way, shape, or form
than just concentrating on one.
>>REGINA: And is that
the case with you?
>>COOPER: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's all of the above.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
I started out not really
having the clairvoyance.
And then that was
the quietest one.
I was much more clairsentient.
I could feel it
and it was almost
like I was feeling words
in my solar plexus.
Like you were saying you
had that slow feeling
of the words coming
down into you,
that sort of drippy feeling.
I would feel that more
in my solar plexus.
But eventually, you develop all
of them if you do it enough.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, through the years
I've noticed each of them.
It just depends
on the situation.
Sometimes it zings,
something goes through
and you just see
it all in a flash
and try to remember
what you just saw.
And then it's gone.
You can't go back and
regroup and analyze it,
which I like those hit and runs,
I call them, they just come,
they're there, you
get it or you don't.
And it's gone.
And it's the same thing when
words come through or sounds
come through.
And I find one thing
a lot of people
is where we hear a lot of
sounds all the time, kind
of a chorus of sounds.
And when the guidance is
trying to get your attention,
I find in my case, the sounds,
the pitch will go way, way up
or it'll sink way down long
enough to catch my attention
and say, hey, dial
into the moment.
Something's trying to get
your attention right now.
>>COOPER: That's
right, absolutely.
>>REGINA: So I mean, something
as simple as a tone even.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Yes.
A tone.
>>REGINA: And then
what about when
you feel beings touching you,
the chills touching your hair
and your shoulders
and around you?
>>COOPER: Well, that's
when you're really
talking about divide,
going between two worlds.
Most people think that there's
an above and there's a below.
But really those multiple
dimension that we talk about
are really parallel.
They're side by side by side.
So you can, especially with
the elemental energies,
which are more of the
nature of spirits,
the gnomes and the fairies
and that type of thing,
you might feel that
sensation because they're
very close in vibration to us.
So yes.
And the angels can
transform themselves
into anything for comfort.
>>REGINA: I notice they
touch your hair a lot.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Yes.
Yes. you have a lot of
fairy energy for sure.
>>REGINA: Oh yeah, there's
a lot of that around.
>>COOPER: Sparkly
energy, you know.
>>REGINA: Well, and
especially that,
especially if I need it
for something as mundane
as connections-- it's
happening right now--
as connecting with an item
because I hate shopping.
>>COOPER: Oh, do you?
>>REGINA: I do not
enjoy the process.
If I need something, I want
to just connect with it
and go home.
And so inevitably
if I need something,
there will be that kind
of a quickend energy
and, boom, in front
of my field of vision,
I'll see a storefront.
>>COOPER: That's right.
>>REGINA: They show me
which store to go to.
>>COOPER: Perfect, perfect.
>>REGINA: So I just go there.
And it'll be sitting there.
The last one left on sale.
That kind of thing.
>>COOPER: Perfect.
That happens to me all
the time too, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, once you learn to
work with all of these things,
it makes life a lot easier.
That's what I find
more than anything.
I don't need to be a
millionairess overnight.
That's not the point.
It's navigating
through life in a way
that has a certain amount
of grace, efficiency even.
>>COOPER: Yes.
Oh, absolutely.
And you know, what you
said is absolutely right.
You can actually
send a band of angels
to support you, like we've
heard the parking space angels,
please give me a parking space.
But you can do
that for shopping.
You can say, OK--
>>REGINA: For anything.
>>COOPER: For anything.
You can send it for anything.
>>REGINA: Do know Jean
Slatter, "Hiring the Heavens"
by any chance?
>>COOPER: No.
>>REGINA: I interviewed
her years ago.
She became a friend of mine.
And she uses it for
everything, all the time.
And it does make
life so much easier.
I don't know any
other way to put it.
>>COOPER: Trustworthy.
It's trustworthy.
I think that's where people,
they don't trust life,
because we're so used to
not trusting each other.
And when we connect, like
what you're talking about,
you lean into that.
Now, you've proven
it out to yourself
enough that you lean into
it and there's a trust.
>>REGINA: And I just expect it.
>>COOPER: Then as an
expectation, yeah.
And you expect it
because you trust it.
And once you get
it, you act on it.
And see, a lot of
people talk out of it.
>>REGINA: And you have to
go through in your mind
and say, OK, I need to pick up
a futon, boom, I see that-- hmm,
I wouldn't have
picked that store.
But I'm seeing the storefront.
And it's usually light
like that, it'll be fine.
Now, if my cognitive
mind kicks in, I'll say,
well, they have
futons here, here,
and here, and you
start doing the list,
you're going to have a long
day, dry day, boring day.
And so there are times where
I have to actually check
in and say is this
something that I was shown
or there is this
something I'm conjuring?
And then talk about
that and the difference
in the feeling of being
shown versus conjuring.
Because these are
other signposts
we need to differentiate.
>>COOPER: Oh, it's so funny.
I did a test.
I went to the grocery store
and I gotten this hit,
just we call them
hits, intuitive hit.
And I heard get a scratch
and win card, just get it.
So I said, that's weird.
Get it now.
I just felt it.
So I bought the
scratch and win card.
I won on all three,
all three numbers.
I think it was like $50.
I said, wow, how cool is that.
OK.
I don't ever get
scratch and win cards.
It was just a hunch.
So I said, well, you know,
if I did that with that, I
wonder if I took a
$20 bill and bought 10
scratch and win
cards, would I win?
>>REGINA: OK, there you go.
>>COOPER: And so I did.
And I said that's a proof.
That's a proof that
when you conjure and you
start to analyze and say, OK,
if you take this, this, this,
and this, you can create that.
No.
But I was just walking through,
I had no intention, not even
thinking about anything, and
I just passing the machine
and I caught a glimpse of it.
And I heard buy that.
And it just hit.
So that's just a
little tiny example.
But it's absolutely
true that you feel it.
Because when you are intuitively
guided to do something,
what you're going to feel
is a sense of depth to it.
It might come as a
flash, but there's
an immediate sense of
knowing, again, you
might get those goosebumps and
you get that little repetitive
like do it now, go, go, go.
When you're conjuring,
it gets very heavy.
>>REGINA: It does get heavy.
>>COOPER: It's very dark.
>>REGINA: Slow.
>>COOPER: Yep, it's slow.
>>REGINA: Not fun.
It's not fun anymore.
>>COOPER: And then you
start to really undermine
your own confidence
because you think, well, I
did all this hard work and I
put all together, nothing's
working.
And usually if you're hitting
a lot of closed doors,
then that's the time when
you need to just say you
what, I'm just going to simmer
down, I'm going to let this go.
And then it just flows.
>>REGINA: When life is
too much work, just life.
And I have friends who've been
into the world of metaphysics
for many years, decades.
Some of whom life is just
so darn hard for them.
>>COOPER: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: And I watch.
And it's this process of
constantly mentally evaluating,
waiting.
The watch pot never boils.
Where if we could almost look
at it in an animated context,
even a Disney-esque
context of the maiden
or the man out in the woods
and nature speaking to them,
a little bird flies across,
and lays a little something.
I don't mean that.
But I mean a little
suggestion on them.
And it's light and freeing,
you frolic off and follow it
down to the woods where you
find the exact thing you
needed along the stream.
I mean, really
that's the quality
that life takes on if you get
your own mind out of the way.
>>COOPER: Yeah.
And you don't have
to be perfect.
That's one thing I want
to really emphasize
is that you try this
like 50% of the time,
you'll start to get results.
And at 80%, you have
miracles happening.
You don't have to be perfect.
I think people get confused
because they think, OK, I
always have to be positive.
And I always have to hold on.
And I always have
to be like what
you're saying, in the zone.
And that's not the case.
>>REGINA: No.
>>COOPER: That's not the case.
>>REGINA: And the other
thing is that loosening up
from the attachment to
the way the outcome,
the timing of the
outcome, the way
it's going to come about,
you just let it go.
>>COOPER: It may look different
than what you thought.
>>REGINA: It may look
totally different.
>>COOPER: Totally different
and feel so better.
>>REGINA: Give us an-- we only
have a couple minutes left,
give us an example of
something in your life
that you wanted that came
about in such a different way,
you almost didn't
recognize it yourself.
>>COOPER: Oh gosh, I
have so many because--
>>REGINA: Just pick one.
>>COOPER: --I'm a control freak.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm a total control freak.
My big plan was to move from
New Jersey to California.
And I had my heart
set on Malibu.
Was going to go to Malibu, saw
it on TV, have to go there,
have to go there.
And I had little
apartments picked out,
all kinds of things.
And when I got there, a friend
of mine called and said--
And I knew it, it's on
all my vision boards.
It's on everything.
Malibu Mar, my
friends had to call me
Malibu Mari for like a year.
And when I got there,
something was off.
And I remember going-- and
owls are a big sign for me.
They're like my good luck sign.
Like they always
are my signpost.
And then my friend
said come to La Jolla
just for one day, just come for
an hour to have dinner with me.
And as I got there, there was
this big owl in front of me.
I said, no, there's just no way.
It's not happening.
>>REGINA: Mari La Jolla.
>>COOPER: And it worked out--
>>REGINA: La Jolla Mari.
>>COOPER: --that I
just happened to be
talking to someone very randomly
on Facebook and met her.
She said, why don't you come
and stay here in San Diego
and find a place to live?
And I ended up
right in La Jolla,
didn't even know
La Jolla existed.
I didn't even know what it was.
>>REGINA: But still a
beautiful, coastal community,
just not Malibu.
>>COOPER: That's right.
That's right.
>>REGINA: And you could
have run right past that.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: If you had your mind
set, your mind set on Malibu.
>>COOPER: Or it would have been
a very hard time living there
because when you force
yourself into something,
things then trip off to
being forced the whole time.
When you go with something
as you're guided and lead,
things have a
tendency to unfold.
And that's what we're really
looking for with this work.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes, indeed.
And then sometimes
it's disappointing.
I'm planning a
vacation, for example,
all the plans fell through.
And I was like a little
teenager, you know, oh, well,
made a little
sandals, girly things.
It's like I'm so looking
forward to this little vacation,
not one thing was
panning out at all.
And I finally realized I've
tried to divide this and push
it before, bad things happen.
So I just let it go.
And soon enough,
something will come in
and show me exactly
where I'm supposed
to be at the right moment.
But I had to abandon
ship on that.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: And it was a one-month
trip to another country
and just let it go.
>>COOPER: That's right.
I mean, we're talking
about houses and trips,
but it could be something
simple like calling
the person at the right time.
>>REGINA: Right.
All of the above.
>>COOPER: All of
those types of things.
It's the smallest things.
>>REGINA: So living lightly,
just kind of breathing in life
and being open to what we're
seeing and sensing and not
running past it with this
determination, as you say,
sometimes this
compulsive behavior even
can be the real enemy of it.
>>COOPER: Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Any final thoughts?
>>COOPER: Well,
I just think that
invest, invest in yourself.
That if you invest in just
taking a little bit of time
to learn these aspects, it's
a huge world out there for.
And it makes the
physical world--
the physical world is like
this and the energetic world
is like this.
And we focus so much on this
and trying to force this.
If we just open
ourselves up just a bit
to those intuitive senses,
you're born with it,
it's all there.
>>REGINA: And allow
ourselves to be surprised.
>>COOPER: Just turn it off.
That's right.
>>REGINA: Don't be
afraid of surprises.
>>COOPER: Tons of aha moments.
>>REGINA: You bet.
Mari, thank you so much.
You're a delight.
>>COOPER: Thank you so much.
You are as well.
Thank you so much for having me.
>>REGINA: Again,
Mariana's book is
titled "The Aha
Factor," which can
be found at major booksellers.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]